---
title: "Hate Speech from a White Supremacy Forum"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-1
date: 2018
venue: 'Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Abusive Language Online'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.04444.pdf'
citation: 'de Gibert, O., Pérez, N., García-Pablos, A., & Cuadros, M. (2018, October). Hate Speech Dataset from a White Supremacy Forum. In Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Abusive Language Online (ALW2) (pp. 11-20).'
---

Abstract 
===

Hate speech is commonly defined as any communication that disparages a target group of
people based on some characteristic such as race, colour, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, nationality, religion, or other characteristic. Due to the massive rise of user-generated web content on social media, the amount of hate speech is also steadily increasing. Over the past years, interest in online hate speech detection and, particularly, the automation of this task has continuously grown, along with the societal impact of the phenomenon. This
paper describes a hate speech dataset composed of thousands of sentences manually labelled as containing hate speech or not. The sentences have been extracted from Stormfront, a white supremacist forum. A custom annotation tool has been developed to carry out the manual labelling task which, among other things, allows the annotators to choose whether to read the context of a sentence before labelling it. The paper also provides a thoughtful qualitative and quantitative study of the resulting dataset and several baseline experiments with different classification models. The dataset is publicly available.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1809.04444.pdf)

Bibtex citation: 
@inproceedings{de2018hate,
  title={Hate Speech Dataset from a White Supremacy Forum},
  author={de Gibert, Ona and P{\'e}rez, Naiara and Garc{\'\i}a-Pablos, Aitor and Cuadros, Montse},
  booktitle={Proceedings of the 2nd Workshop on Abusive Language Online (ALW2)},
  pages={11--20},
  year={2018}
}
